# Weekly Learning Notes
Are you like me and you learning how to code? When one is stuck in the weeds of the day-to-day, we can lose sight of how far we've come from our very first line of code and only think about our current difficulties. 

I created this page to track my progress, the time spent on coding/learning to code, and wins and struggles along the way. This is done in tandem with going through the [#100DaysOfCode](https://twitter.com/AnnCodes). Check out the old [autodidact](https://ann-codes.github.io/autodidact/) progress before I joined the [LaunchAcademy Bootcamp](https://launchacademy.com/) through the [Apprenti Program](https://apprenticareers.org/) in Boston. 

## Weekly Progress Notes
*The goal is to dedicate at least 7 hours each week (1 hour/day) outside of bootcamp or work time as denoted by ^ when it is a good week.  Weeks are defined as Monday through Sunday and is ordered by most recent. Time is tracked with [Toggle](https://toggl.com/) (best app ever!).*

*Note: Weeks 48 onward was updated way after the fact on May 21st so there may not be as much detail.*  

**WEEK 54: 05/11/2020 - 05/10/2020: 23hrs 46mins = (22:28 BC + 01:17 Work)**
-   Week 19, the last week of bootcamp! 
-   Some of the core requirements were changed from the first cohort in that we were not required to do a login because the Spring Security section was removed from the curriculum in favor of having the individual project. While I do think having an individual project was the right move, I don't quite agree with removing Spring Security from the project requirements since this is a really important part of having a CRUD app, imo. I feel like it still could have been incorporated into the curriculum. The material from last year was released to us after a few days, but by then, I was already doing my own research on login and security so I chose to implement my own crude login with some basic security features which was most of what I worked on during the second week. 
-   In the end, we have our mostly completed project called [Spilling the T](https://github.com/ann-codes/spilling-the-t), a review site for the MBTA. 
-   We pretty much stopped working on the project on Thursday night since Friday was demo day and **graduation** as well. It held online and we were able to invite our family and friends to the demo and gradution. For the most part, I am pleased at how my project turned out and I am grateful for my teammates and the whole experience. There were 3 groups in all (3-4 members per team) and everyone had an awesome project. I am so proud of my cohort! 
-   That said, graduation had a lot of tears and I am really going to miss seeing my friends and teammates everyday. This was just such a wonderful experience that I feel so lucky to have been part of it and to be able to experience the trials and tribulations of coding bootcamp with these people I now call friends that I would not have met otherwise wihout Apprenti and Launch Acadmey. It was rather bittersweet because we were all worn out by the end of the bootcamp and the following Monday, half of the cohort would be starting on the job training which comes with its own set of excitement and apprehension. 

**WEEK 53: 05/04/2020 - 05/10/2020: 25hrs 12mins = (25:02 BC + 00:10 Other)**
-   We are now in week 18 and it is finally the 2 week group project where we are tasked with building a review site. This is an ungraded project. 
-   I must say that the first few days of the project with my super awesome group was probably one of the most enjoyable experiences I had during the bootcamp. For a few days we were just up (really late) coding and shooting the shit. It's one of those fairly mundane experiences that I will remember fondly forever. 
-   But of course there are some bumps during the project, namely disagreeing with our instructors/activing PMs on how we built certain parts of the backend and having PRs rejected because they felt it was done incorrectly, though we were never really taught the "correct" way of doing this particular part. That kind of deflated our motivation as we spent a few days trying solve this. Eventually, I figured it out and we were able to move on, but it was still not a good feeling being stopped in our tracks given how much of a roll we felt we were on at the start of the project. 

**WEEK 52: 04/27/2020 - 05/03/2020: 31hrs 17mins = (31:17 BC)**
-   Week 17 was the individual project to convert the backend of the midterm project to Spring from Node/Express. To make up for the fact that we would be losing a test since some people may still need the points to reach the total, that the bootcamp decided to grade this project as they would a test. There were criteria to meet and exceeds expectations and we would be working on it on our own (though help from each other was permitted). 
-   At first glance it seemed nearly impossible to exceed expectations because all requirements from the original group project had to be met *and* all the backend was to be converted. No one group managed to actually complete all requirements from the group project so there would be some major parts that I would be creating from scratch. That put a bit of a damper on things as I had a perfect streak of EE's by this week and just needed the last feather in my cap. 
-   As usual, the first day with the set up and config was painful. But after that, the week spent coding and working on the project was downright pleasant. A few people from my cohort were super anxious about remembering how to work with React again, but it came back to me pretty quickly. I also enjoyed not having to be beholden to anyone during this week and code as I pleased, whenever I wished. I also learned a few new things on my own going through this process. 
-   At the end of the week, we had a retrospective to discuss how it went. It was interesting to see the contrast between my experience and the experience of some of my cohort-mates. There was a lot of acknowledgements of gaps in knowledge and what to focus on to get better. There was also lots of anxiety going due to this acknowledgement as we will be starting our jobs in two weeks! In the end, whether negative or positive, it was a valuable experience for all. 
-   I am happy to say that I got an EE on the project! **Perfect Streak of EE's!**
-   Lastly, I want to acknowledge that I have completed a whole year of **[#100DaysOfCode](https://www.100daysofcode.com/)!!!!!!!!** While it is not all consecutive days with a gap here or there, I am SO proud of how far I've come along especially around this time last year. It's crazy how things turned out. 

**WEEK 51: 04/20/2020 - 04/26/2020: 17hrs 38mins = (17:38 BC)**
-   Bootcamp Week 16 is a relatively easy week for me as we are using APIs with the Spring framework. I found it pretty straight forward. It appears that they are trying something new with the assignments this week, where our assignments were "meatier" and spanded several days. I kind of prefer it that way. I scored another "Exceeds Expectations" for this week's test. 
-   We also learned that instead of the usual content for week 17, we will instead be working on our "midterm" project and converting the backend to Spring. At first I wasn't too thrilled because I thought it was another group project and I was not ready to have anyone rely on me just yet. But it turned out to be an individual project where we will just be converting the backend on our own. I found that I was looking forward to that!
-   There's really not too much to report here as I was pretty much doing the bare minimum of work for the bootcamp and coping with the day to day. I do want to mention what has helped me was basically the new [Animal Crossing: New Horizons](https://animal-crossing.com/) game that helped me cope with the pandemic. It's a relaxing little game played in real time that actually made me look forward to the next day. Go figure. 

**WEEK 50: 04/13/2020 - 04/19/2020: hrs mins = (21:22 BC + 00:50 Other)**
-   Week 15 is when it starts getting interesting as we go into the Spring framework. There wasn't too much issues of note in terms of the learning process and the material and I found myself really enjoying Spring. The initial Java material leading up to Spring was to illustrate how it used to be done (painfully) before the framework's proliferation which I am not too sure we should have spent so much time on the lead up. I feel like Spring could have been introduced a week earlier and is indeed complex enough to fill the time. Spring certainly makes things a whole lot easier. The score for this week's test was an EE. 
-   I watched a [Learning Spring w/ Spring Boot](https://www.lynda.com/Spring-tutorials/Learning-Spring-Spring-Boot/2824009-2.html) on Lynda.com (while on the stationary bike, double duty!) to get a bit more exposure on the framework. It's actually a pretty good one to watch after this particular week since he uses a very similar stack to what was taught in the bootcamp.  

**WEEK 49: 04/06/2020 - 04/12/2020: 27hrs 8mins = (27:08 BC)**
-   Week 14 is on JSPs and Servlets. I was initially feeling overwhelmed with the new infomation at this point. There were also some errors in our learning material which also didn't help with confidence, but after working through the problems,  debugging, and finally getting it, it helped calm me down a bit.
-   We were given 4 hours to work on the test this week as opposed to the usual 3 due to the initial confusion from the errors on the material. But in the end, I personally did not use the whole 4 hours and still managed to get another EE. 
-   At this point, I am no longer working on anything else outside of the bootcamp. I suppose it was a good time to stop the MOOC because we are getting well past what it is teaching (more data structures) vs the bootcamp curriculm (going into frameworks). The stress and anxiety from the pandemic has also started to take a toll on me and I needed to stop demanding too much of myself at this point and needed to focus on self care. 

**WEEK 48: 03/30/2020 - 04/05/2020: hrs mins = (27:46 BC + 3:22 Other)**
-   Week 13, we are finally going into databases with Java using Hibernate and learning more about the quirks of Java, such as its reliance on @Annotations. 
-   This time around we are getting used to the configuration in Java. Hoo boy, there's a lot and it can be such a headache. I did manage to get another EE this test, but just barely because the set-up and config (and then debugging if done incorrectly) took a big chunk of the time. 
-   For the MOOC, I encountered bugs in the program where I would pass the tests and compile fine on my machine but once it is uploaded to the server, there are compiling errors on the server end. Previously, I was able to solve these issues as they arose, but not this time. It got to the point where I would copy and paste several other people's passed code and try to submit it and still get the server compiling errors. This is particularly irritating because advancing to the next lesson is dependant on completing the previous lesson. These errors aren't due to my code being incorrect or not passing the test, but rather the compiling in their servers that is the problem. They have a way of checking the code manually and I've made a request, but at this point, I cannot advance any further in the MOOC. What a disappointment.  

**WEEK 47: 03/23/2020 - 03/29/2020: 30hrs 59mins = (20:29 BC + 10:30 Other)**
-   We are now heading into the 2nd remote week, Week 12, Java Data Structures. As the name describes, it is all about List,  Maps (and more on interfaces), and dipping our toes into reading and writing JSON files. The work consists of mostly drills (my favorite) though it is slightly annoying because I do not yet know all the utils and (convenience) methods in Java, so I can't be as concise or clever as I was in JS. I am still feeling generally ambivalent about Java, it is what it is. Hopefully it will grow on me eventually. I am still holding my "Exceeds Expectations" perfect streak, but I am trying not to stress over it anymore.
-   The bootcamp homework for the weekend was rather light and quickly finished, so I have some extra time to work on the MOOC (among other things). I *finally* finished Part 6 of the MOOC and am now moving on to Part 7 which consists of multi-part drills, mostly on ArrayLists. Their readings on structuring classes in Part 6 was very enlightening and extra practice is always helpeful w/ Part 7. I also do enjoy the fact that it gives me insight into another way of doing things with Java as opposed to only the view of the bootcamp. 

**WEEK 46: 03/16/2020 - 03/22/2020: 31hrs 42mins = (26:09 BC + 5:33 Other)**
-   Week 11 is the Java Objects week and our first remote week. We got into working with more Java classes and learning about interfaces and whatnot. We also started using [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/index.html), which is like a dependencies/package manager like NPM/Yarn. It felt a whole lot better working with Java and I started to get more comfortable using IntelliJ as a result (though I still find myself hitting the VSC hotkeys occasionally). 
-   Other than the bootcamp work, there was very little extra work done during the week. TLDR, it was personally a tough start to the week for me, but things got better: As eluded to from the last update, it was not a good start of the week for me mentally while we all grappled with the pandemic going on and getting used to the new normal. Everyone, from the Apprenti Program manager, the LA Instructors, and my classmates have been incredibly supportive of each other. I was not able to concentrate *at all* and did the bare minimum in readings and assignments (not even bothering with the optional assignments). I was not the only person with these issues either. The start of the week was very bad with Wednesday being the worst of it for me. Then Thursday rolled around and I was feeling much better mentally. It felt like a switch was turned back on or I got it out of my system. Thursday and Friday were the start of feeling normal again (as normal as it could be). I hoped to be a bit more productive this weekend and catch up with the MOOC as I had planned, though I am not putting too much pressure on myself to do so (to keep myself sane). The MOOC has a mid-term on March 21st (not required for non-university students) and I would like to take it, but we shall see. 
-   As the weekend rolled around, I was able to put in about 5.5 hours worth of time working on the MOOC. I was not able to take the exam as hoped as I would need to have completed all the assignments (up to part 7, I am still on part 6) to even access the exam. Oh well. At this point, the MOOC isn't necessarily helping me to get ahead but mostly serves as additional practice in writing Java. Next week, the bootcamp will be going beyond the subject matter of the MOOC since we will be working with databases then. 

**WEEK 45: 03/09/2020 - 03/15/2020: 23hrs 44mins = (18:02 BC + 5:42 Other)**
-   We are now at week 10 for the bootcamp and are finally getting into Java (SDK11). Since I had spent a good deal of time preparing by starting the University of Helsinki MOOC on Java, this was an easy week for me in terms of workload. I am also glad to say those peers who were newly introduced to programming fundamentals in week 1 seemed to have a more comfortable time getting into Java as they now understand the concepts and it is just a matter of learning new syntax. No more drinking from a firehose so to speak. It as also a bit shocking to realize that week 1 in the bootcamp covers weeks 1-3 in the MOOC. (Again, I can't repeat enough how you will have a much better bootcamp experience if you have at minimum, a good understanding of the fundamentals because that is the rate most bootcamps are going). 
-   While week 1 was the "Intro to Java" week, it seemed to be designed mostly as an introduction to the work environment and syntax. The exercises were writing simple programs using conditionals and loops. Most of my frustration during this week was getting used to another IDE, namely IntelliJ CE, the setup, and compiling nature of Java which seems finicky as all heck IMO. I was not a fan (though my tune has since changed at the time of this writing). 
-   TLDR The bootcamp is moving remotely for the next 5 weeks due to COVID-19 concerns. The rest is very journal-y and can be skipped: I had high hopes of catching up to the MOOC which was at Part 6 during this week. But that all (and more) went to hell because of the COVID-19 virus. I had been following the news since January, but only just so because I was so preoccupied with the bootcamp. I started to stress about it about 2 weeks prior, with last week being very difficult though I somehow managed to focus. However, this was the week that it became real to many people with Italy shutting down and more cases identified. All around me, companies were telling their employees to work from home and the commute into Boston became more and more sparse. Honestly, my classmates and I were *all* very distracted by what was going on. Mid-week, we were informed that we will be going remote on March 23rd for a month. By Friday afternoon, it decided that we were going remote on starting on March 16 instead, for 5 weeks at minimum. There's also the possibility that it will be longer. I do not mind as much since we've all gotten to know each other and have become friends so we have that community feel that is just going to be moving digitally. And one of the main reasons I want to get into programming is to ultimately get a remote job. That said, I'm an introvert-gamer nerd and already have a nice set up at home, I have worked in a University having some adjacent online learning platform responsibilities and also taken some online courses during grad school, so I was pretty comfortable with the decision and learning online. I actually thought I was going to have a good time with it all, but not so during a pandemic. Leading up to the end of the week, I spent less and less time on the MOOC. On Saturday, I had a kind of a meltdown so skipped that day of coding. Sunday only had any coding at all because of the need to do homework for the following week. I was not in a good mental state going into the first remote week with everything going on. 

**WEEK 44: 03/02/2020 - 03/08/2020: hrs mins = (32:44 BC + 3:46 Other)**
-   We finally made it to the halfway point at week 9. This was the small group project week. I normally abhor school-group projects because I ultimately end up being that person or one of two persons that do all or most of the work. I want to get a good grade and have had less than dependable group members in past schoolwork. However, with this group, I was *hungry* to do *all* the work because this is how I get that experience. It's also hella fun as well. 
-   The project was to build a simple adoption agency application using React for the frontend, Node & Express backend, with data persisting in Postgres. We had a few different user stories to go through. My group decided to spice things up by making an adoption agency site for [magical creatures](https://github.com/ann-codes/fluff-and-flame). We ultimately did not finish all of the user stories (none of the groups did), but all of the group demos were great!
-   I *really, REALLY* enjoyed this week. Each person in my group generally worked on our own sections so there were few chances for friction. 
-   The most important aspect was the fact that we had to submit code by submitting PR requests while our instructors acted as the project managers reviewing PR and merging it. That was eye-opening as the whole git/GitHub workflow no longer was so abstract to me and became understandable. This was very exciting! The instructors busted their asses on this part (it was a TON of work for them!) and I felt like understanding the workflow was actually more important than the coding. Not all bootcamps do this and I feel like the ones who do is what sets them above the rest. (Though I may be a little biased).
-   Most of the hours were spent on the project (because everything was so exciting to me) that I didn't spend too much time on extra work. 3 hours was spent on the Java MOOC. And about 30 mins on watching Tim Buchalka's video. 

**WEEK 43: 02/14/2020 - 03/01/2020: 37hrs 58mins = (24:48 BC + 13:10^ Other)**
-   Week 8 is going into the land of databases, specifically PostgresSQL! Admittedly, this was the first week of the bootcamp where I started to feel overwhelmed. Part of it was because it was a short week for us (the powers that be decided to float the Monday off last week to this week because React is typically very hard for people) so the work was crammed into fewer days and we were back to using Handlebars for templates which threw me off-kilter at the start. I was very concerned about the test all week. But the Thursday evening before the test, I was able to solve a hard homework problem that stumped us for a while and that blew the wind into my sails! I felt better about it then and came to take the test on Friday with more positive vibes. I am happy to say that I am still on my streak of getting EE's for the test! 8 Weeks!
-   Another reason why I was more anxious this week was that I might have put a little too much pressure on myself to get into the Java material with the day off. With the Helsinki MOOC course, I spent about 11 hours completing 3 sections on that course this week. This is a 14 week/section course that has already released 6 sections at the time of this writing and I wanted to catch up to it as soon as possible. This course will be wrapping up around the time the bootcamp wraps up so the timing can't be better. 
-   I also spent about 2 hours going through Tim Buchalka's Java course as well. I'm not coding along but am mostly watching the videos during downtimes. I was able to go through some of the videos very quickly because of the work I had been doing in the MOOC. I am trying to keep the pacing of the two courses around the same so that it reinforces each other. I found the nice thing about Tim's course is that there are challenges that you can do in Udemy itself so you don't have to install anything at the beginning (though of course, it is better that you do). Unfortunately, the Udemy IDE is not the best and Tim's challenges are long and tedious which is not fun having to do that in a less than ideal IDE. 
-  So far, I am enjoying learning Java right now and have started to do some baby problems in Java on Codewars. 

**WEEK 42: 02/17/2020 - 02/23/2020: hrs mins = (26:51 BC + 8:42^ Other)**
-   Week 7 is "Advanced React". I am enjoying React w/ hooks a whole lot now and can see why it is so dang popular. Other bits of the "advanced" part includes learning to use React Router and testing in React w/ Enzyme. I am not too fond of testing and of course, I had to be the person who was assigned to present on that section, *so fun*. But regardless, I did manage to get another "Exceeds Expectations" this week. 
-   During the weekdays when I had snatches of time during my commute or before bed, I reviewed a lot of the usual Udemy courses/their React sections: Angela Yu, Colt Steele, Andrei Neagoie for a combined total of over 7 hours here. I did also finally manage to finish Angela Yu's course again. Her course was probably the most helpful of them all in my bootcamp though Colt Steele's was a close second. Even though much of his course was not using hooks, it was still very informative and applicable in many cases. 
-   Since we are getting close to starting Java, I dug into [Tim Buchalka's Java Programming Masterclass](https://www.udemy.com/course/java-the-complete-java-developer-course/) course for a bit and also spent over an hour getting set up with the University of Helsinki's MOOC course on [Java Programming](https://java-programming.mooc.fi/). It's a pretty amazing course! You do have to install an IDE that is integrated with their system to submit your assignments. With my background in JS, I am finding that it has been *very easy* to follow along with the course thus far. 

**WEEK 41: 02/10/2020 - 02/16/2020: 32hrs 35mins = (24:33 BC + 8:02^ Other)**
-   Week 6 is now the "React" week. In all my preparation for React, I had been learning React using the old style of class components since that is what most of the material is taught in. But for the bootcamp, we are strictly learning React with functional components and Hooks! It was confusing for me to start as I had to adjust to a new set of syntax, but I found that learning it the old way helped me pick up the useState hooks very easily. 
-   2 hours was spent finishing up the all of the (two) free Codecademy React courses: [Codecademy's Learn React part 1](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-101) and [part 2](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-102). About 2.5 hours was spent on [Colt Steele's Modern React Bootcamp](https://www.udemy.com/course/modern-react-bootcamp/). Unfortunately, it focuses mostly on the class components way, though he has an update near the end on functional components and hooks that I haven't gotten to yet. I still need to work my way through [Andrei Neagoie's Zero to Mastery course](https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-web-developer-zero-to-mastery/) which hasn't been touched in a while, but where I left off, part of his exercise was using class components and the other part in functional components without state or hooks. But at least it is a decent middle ground. For the courses that largely create stateful components with classes, I have largely only been watching them before bed or during my commute (since it's still good to know how it works and be familiar with the structure), and I only code along with projects that use hooks and functional components. 
-   Another 3.5 hours was spent on [Angela Yu's Complete 2019 Web Development Bootcamp](https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-web-development-bootcamp/)'s new React section. Thankfully Angela's lessons focus specifically on functional components and hooks, so her material has been my primary reference. Another excellent course that focuses specifically on React w/ hooks is the [Full Stack Open "Deep Dive Into Modern Web Development"](https://fullstackopen.com/en) from the University of Helsinki. It is teaching everything that my bootcamp will be going through these 2 weeks of React except for GraphQL in Full Stack Open. 
-  I can say that functional components and hooks are great because I am less likely to make syntax mistakes (with all the `this` in class) and it is much easier to read once you get used to it. 
-  I scored another "Exceeds Expectations" this week for the test on Friday which I was particularly proud of as I was able to figure out fetch to get it to work during the test itself. I only saw one example of it at the beginning of the week that was moderately related to it and it was enough to get it. 

**WEEK 40: 02/03/2020 - 02/09/2020: 34hrs 19mins = (28:16 BC + 6:03 Other)**
-   Week 5 is ramping up in much less familiar territory that I had struggled with previously. We are now working through using Express.js w/ node. [Handlebars.js](https://handlebarsjs.com/) was the templating library that we used. 
-   Aside from working through a ton Express and Handlebars exercises, about 2.5hrs during the week was spent watching Express related videos on Lynda.com so I can keep up. 
-   I ended up with another "Exceeds Expectations" for the Friday test and I certainly understand Express much better. 
-   In retrospect, if the Hackathon occurred after this particular week, I would have had a much easier time to hook everything up and get the project to an MVP level instead of the broken mess that it was. 
-   During the weekend, it was finally prepping for React for next week. I spent about 3.5 hours in attempting to refactor my old rock, paper, scissors project into React as practice and continued with the Codecademy free React courses. 

**WEEK 39: 01/26/2020 - 02/02/2020: 32hrs 15mins = (18:47 BC + 13:28 Other)**
-   Week 4 of the bootcamp was very much a break, since it was going over HTML, CSS, the [Foundation Framework](https://foundation.zurb.com/), DOM Manipulation, and JQuery, though mostly on the HTML and CSS for the benifit of my classmates who do not have experience in it. 
-   I spent a little over 2 hours on a React course on Codecademy. It is still yet to be completed (along with the other React material) and another 1.5 hours on the React section in Andrei Neagoie's course. A bit of time was spent watching another CS50 class lecture. 
-   As for the hackathon, only one other bootcamp cohort-mate joined in on the fun, whereas the rest were either sick or had other plans. While we were looking for random team members with some backend experience, we were ultimately paired with 2 other members.. who were in high school and were just learning HTML and CSS. Ultimately, my cohort-mate and I decided that we will focus on the backend while our new members worked on the front-end. It was an exercise in biting off more than we can chew. Our app was sort of a Life-Alert type app but with sms integration. It was to be used w/ React, Nodejs, Expressjs, MongoDB, and Nextjs. Twilio was what we used for the SMS integration. Mind you, I don't have much experience in integrating most of these things from scratch so much of the time was spent trying to figure it out and stumbling through all that mess. We did manage to integrate Twilio w/ React on Express/Node, but that's just about it. In the end, my cohort-mate and I decided not to attend demo day. It was certainly a new experience and one I want to try again. Hopefully next time will be less frustrating and more productive. It was about 8 hours spent on pure coding/debugging for the hackathon and I was able to attend a session on learning about design systems like [Patternfly](https://www.patternfly.org/).

**WEEK 38: 01/20/2020 - 01/26/2020: 25hrs 22mins = (20:16 BC + 5:27 Other)**
-   Week 3 in the bootcamp was all about classes and testing in [Jest](https://jestjs.io/). I didn't get the point of classes previously, but after several assignments AND working it in Jest, I goddamn love classes and it makes so much sense. I enjoyed the assignments this week and it's starting to feel like it is ramping up. There was actually an assignment that I didn't fully complete (the assignments usually have a hard mode section), but I would like to complete this problem set since I've been formulating on how to solve it for several days now!
-   Since React is going to start next week, the non-bootcamp time spent was mostly working on various React resources. I am going through the React section in [Andrei Neagoie's Zero to Mastery course](https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-web-developer-zero-to-mastery/) and also the [Codecademy's Learn React part 1](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-101) and [part 2](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-102). I still need to finish the React section in Angela Yu's course. It's almost done, I promise!
-   Lastly, I signed up for [CS50](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/2020/) courses on edX and the web and Andriod tracks that they offer. The whole point of it was so I can have something to watch before bed while using the excellent edX app. But after watching a few lectures, I am tempted to do the assignments, though it might have to wait until *after* the bootcamp.

**WEEK 37: 01/13/2020 - 01/19/2020: 25hrs 22mins = (20:51 BC + 4:31 Other)**
-   The topics covered in week 2 for the bootcamp was data structures in JS. While it is still mostly review, I did put a bit more time into the classwork due to a presentation I had to give. As a part of the new topics introduced as homework, 2-3 students as assigned to present on the topic the next morning. I assume that it will help those students presenting deep dive on the topic more, as was the case for me (presenting on Intro to OOP). Since the class is so small (10 students), I expect to present once a week or at best, I may skip a week depending on where I am called (presentations are assigned by alpha). 
-   Assignments are still pretty straight forward to me at this time, but try to practice map, filter, and reduce where possible, or making sure to write clean and well thought out code (as thought out as it can be for intro-type assignments). 
-   I also helped walk through the topics with my classmates more this week than the previous week. I had a tough time wrapping my head around complex data structures and iterating through them when I started, so I am trying to do what I can to help the classmates who are just being introduced to these topics now. Needless to say, the end of the week test on data structures were very rough for some of my classmates. 
-   I was planning on being a little more proactive on studying ahead, but a lot more time was spent on the actual bootcamp so that didn't pan out as hoped. I did manage to get some more exposure to React through Angela Yu's course, but still have not finished it! 
-   I started looking into all the hubbub about headless CMSs and static site generators (Gatsby and Hugo are the two I am leaning most towards) and would like to get some more experience in that area as well. I have promised an Aunt that I will develop a simple brochure site for her so that would give me some good practice there. 
-   Lastly, I signed up for my first hackathon! Boston's largest all-female, femme, and non-binary hackathon called [TechTogether](https://boston.techtogether.io/). It will be 1/31-2/2 so it is coming up soon! I was aware of this hackathon for some time but didn't apply when applications opened because I was still at the old job then. Not a problem anymore! All I did was tell my classmates and all the ladies and non-binary folks signed up (all 6 of us!). I am very excited about this though this will be the first hackathon for all of us. It will be an amazing experience and I am looking forward to it!

**WEEK 36: 01/06/2020 - 01/12/2020: 16hrs 29mins = (11:44 BC + 4:44 Other)**
-   The [Launch Academy bootcamp](https://launchacademy.com/) for the [Apprenti Program](https://apprenticareers.org/) is an 19 week in-person bootcamp in Boston. We will go through topics pretty quickly each week. Around week 8 or 9 there will be a small group project. Weeks 18-19 will be a larger group project. 
-   I am only actually counting bootcamp time when it is something new I am learning, when I am tutoring/teaching others, or when I am working on assignments and am coding. 
-   Topics for the bootcamp this week were going through basics such as the command line, data types, variables, functions, scope, loops. 
-   Launch Academy has backward pedagogy where the new concepts are introduced as part of the homework (reading and assignments). In the mornings, we go through the homework material, then have another lecture building/reviewing the homework material. At noon, we break for lunch at which time the afternoon assignments are posted where we work on after lunch to the late afternoon. The last lecture commences further building on the material. Then homework assignments are released for the evening. Then rinse and repeat. On Fridays, we have a test of sorts where we are tested on the material from the week, writing a small app. Students are expected to pass at least half the tests each week to graduate. 
So far, I am a fan of the process because it is varied enough in terms of the type of work to do so you are not slogging through the same old thing every day. 
-   I am super happy that I self-learned for so long and understand these basics. I feel like it would have been incredibly hard for me to go into a bootcamp without it given how hard it was for the basics to finally stick. For anyone thinking of doing a bootcamp, it will be incredibly hard to go into one from zero so I recommend at least a month or two of going over the basics and being able to write a small app. Having the foundation will also help you learn so much better! Additionally, since the assignments are essentially coding drills similar to Edabit or Codewars (which I love!), I did not have any issues with acclimating to the process. 
-   I was able to help some of my cohort-mates by walking through their way of thinking with their code and what kind of output they are looking for. In a particular lecture, we were a bit stumped on why some code works a certain way (see below) and after reviewing and determining the why on my own, I was able to share this with my classmates. Teaching *really* helps me learn!
-   Blog post ideas: why while(x !== "y" && x !== "n") is logical; prepping for a bootcamp + my recommended materials; 
-   Since much of the subject is review to me, I am finding a lot of downtime in between since I can finish the assignments early. To make good use of my time, I've been spending my spare time in attempts to finish up the new React section on [Angela Yu's Complete 2019 Web Development Bootcamp](https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-web-development-bootcamp/). Once that is done, I plan on starting and finishing [Colt Steele's Modern React Bootcamp](https://www.udemy.com/course/modern-react-bootcamp/). I want to get through these courses very quickly so I can be ready for when we start tackling React in 4 weeks. After that's all done, it will be on to [Tim Buchalka's Java Programming Masterclass](https://www.udemy.com/course/java-the-complete-java-developer-course/) since the second half of the bootcamp is all Java and I want to be ready. 
-   Admittedly, I have been taking my weekends and evenings easy and did not get through as much of the Udemy courses as hoped. It's been about 8-9 months since I started self-learning where my hobby === coding during that time. Now that I can code during the "workday", that frees up time for the rest of life so my old hobbies in the evening. It's been a novel experience!

**WEEK 35: 12/30/2019 - 01/05/2020: 4hrs 8mins**
-   Since I am enrolling into a [bootcamp](https://launchacademy.com/), I guess posting to the [autodidact](https://ann-codes.github.io/autodidact/) will no longer be completely true. I've created a new [learning notes](https://ann-codes.github.io/learning-notes/) repo in the same format so that I can track my time during the bootcamp/work and any independant projects. 
-   I also ["restarted"](https://twitter.com/AnnCodes/status/1212537570019725313) a new round of #100DaysOfCode as of 1/1/20. Given the breaks from the last 3 weeks, it felt silly to have that big of a gap while continuing the 100 days. I am officially ending it at **245 Consecutive Days** even though it was probaly something like 257 consecutive days if you actually count watching CS videos in bed for 10 mins or so before passing out from exhaustion. 
-   I skipped days 12/30-12/31 since I was flying back and then jetlagged those days. 
-   This week is all up about catching up to and finishing the LaunchAcademy precourse work and getting ready for next week!

**FROM THE BEGINNING**
-   Check out the old [autodidact](https://ann-codes.github.io/autodidact/) progress updates before I joined the [LaunchAcademy Bootcamp](https://launchacademy.com/) through the [Apprenti Program](https://apprenticareers.org/) in Boston. I changed the name because it autodidact is no longer 100% correct. 
